task: added documentation and images for the secrets feature (#125)
seqeralabs/nf-tower-docs: docs/secrets/overview.md

---
title: Secrets Overview
headline: 'Secrets'

> description: 'Step-by-step instructions to set up user and workspace secrets in Nextflow Tower.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Step-by-step instructions to set-up User and Workspace Secrets in Nextflow Tower.'
```

> description: 'Step-by-step instructions to set-up User and Workspace Secrets in Nextflow Tower.'

Reviewer 2: Branding was changed to `Tower` only.

```suggestion
description: 'Step-by-step instructions to set-up User and Workspace Secrets in Tower.'
```

---

## Introduction

> Tower uses the concept of **Secrets** to store the keys and tokens that are not meant to be exposed or to be transferred between the platform and the compute environment. In order to achieve this extra level of security, Tower relies on Secrets Manager technology that Cloud providers offers in order to maintain the traffic between the Compute Environment and the vault secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tower uses the concept of **Secrets** to store private keys and tokens that are not meant to be exposed or transferred between a given computing platform and the Tower Compute Environment. In order to achieve this extra level of security, Tower relies on existing Secrets Manager technologies offered by Cloud providers to maintain the traffic between the Compute Environment and the secure vault.
```

Reviewer: Which existing technologies are we using here and what does "vault secure" mean? I got a little confused by this sentence:
"In order to achieve this extra level of security, Tower relies on Secrets Manager technology that Cloud providers offers in order to maintain the traffic between the Compute Environment and the vault secure."

> Tower uses the concept of **Secrets** to store the keys and tokens that are not meant to be exposed or to be transferred between the platform and the compute environment. In order to achieve this extra level of security, Tower relies on Secrets Manager technology that Cloud providers offers in order to maintain the traffic between the Compute Environment and the vault secure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tower uses the concept of **Secrets** to store the keys and tokens that are not meant to be exposed or to be transferred between different platforms and the compute-environments. In order to achieve this extra level of security, Tower relies on Secrets Manager technology natively offered by Cloud providers to maintain secure traffic between the Compute Environment and the secrets vault.
```

Author: It's not different platforms but Tower

!!! note 

>     Currently only Slurm/HPC and AWS are supported. Please read more about AWS Secret Manager [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Currently, only Slurm/HPC and AWS Batch are supported. You can read more about AWS Secrets Manager [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/index.html)
```

## Workspace Secrets

> To create a Workspace Secret is necessary to navigate to a workspace first (private or shared). From there a new tab **Secret** in the top navigation will give access to the secrets management interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Workspace-level Secret navigate to a Workspace (private or shared) and click on the **Secrets** tab in the top navigation pane to gain access to the Secrets management interface.
```

![](_images/workspace_secrets_and_credentials.png)

> The UI shows the list of available secrets and gives allowed users (admin or owner of the workspace) the possibility to create a new secret or update an existing secret value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the available Secrets will be listed here and users with the appropriate permissions (Workspace admin or owner) will be able to create or update Secret values.
```

![](_images/secrets_list.png)

> The form for creating or edit a secret is very similar to the one used for credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The form for creating or updating a Secret is very similar to the one used for Credentials.
```

![](_images/secrets_creation_form.png)

## User Secrets

> The User Secrets list and edit/create form works in the same way as the one described above. The menu that appears clicking the avatar in the top right corner gives access to the functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User-level Secrets can be accessed by clicking on your avatar in the top right corner of the Tower interface and selecting "Your Secrets". Conceptually, listing, creating and updating User-level Secrets is the same as highlighted for Workspace-level Secrets. 
```

![](_images/personal_secrets_and_and_credentials.png)

## Secrets Usage in Pipeline Runs

> When a new pipeline is launched then all the secrets (workspace and user) are sent to the corresponding compute environment secret manager: nextflow execution will then download these secrets internally and uses these when referenced in the pipeline code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new Pipeline is launched then all Secrets (Workspace and User) are sent to the corresponding Secrets Manager for the Compute Environment: On executions, Nextflow will download these Secrets internally and uses them wherever they are referenced in the pipeline code.
```

When a new Pipeline is launched then all Secrets (Workspace and User) are sent to the corresponding Secrets Manager for the Compute Environment: On executions, Nextflow will download these Secrets internally and uses them wherever they are referenced in the pipeline code.

Secrets will be automatically deleted from the Secrets Manager when the Pipeline reaches completion (successful or unsuccessful).

> ## Aws Secrets Manager Integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## AWS Secrets Manager Integration
```
